1st ed., Flowminder Foundation, 2021, pp. 1–5, Population Movements Estimated with Mobile Operator Data from Digicel Haiti: Report from 20 August. Accessed 21 Sep. 2021. Throughout the credible and detailed data report, Flowminder, in collaboration with Digicel Haiti, shows the results generated from a set of preliminary analyses following the devastating earthquake on August 14th, 2021. Using mobile operator geospatial data and the data science method of clustering, the organizations have been able to track population density and mobility after the earthquake in Haiti, a small island nation in the Hispañola area of the Caribbean. Through aggregated sampling and “calculating the number of subscribers who made or received a call per cell tower cluster” (Population 2), the report was able to focus on two major ideas implied by the data. 
Most importantly, when tragedy strikes in economically burdened nations like Haiti, people are forced to flee for their lives, seek shelter in alternate locations, and find unique ways to support themselves financially. The geographical illustrations show the redistribution of Digicel Haiti subscribers from the centre of Les Cayes and Camp Perrin to other locations across the Nation. As the article conveys, these results could be caused partially by residents leaving, but also partly by visitors not coming into the city center as much as before. In a fragile nation like Haiti, a sharp decrease in citizen influx, tourism, and economic flow can cause serious long-term damage. 
Inherently, Haiti is a nation plagued by different levels of poverty, disease, and instability. Strong hurricanes, storms, and earthquakes can severely hinder human development and one major event can result in an automatic natural reset. Yet similarly, another important idea was presented towards the end of the report: An increase in national disasters (like earthquakes) results in an increase in time for travel routes. As seen by the final graph, there was an “increase on the day of the earthquake of the median length of the routes traveled in the departments of the south, Grand’Anse and Nippes and a strong decrease from Sunday 15 to Tuesday 17 included” (Population 5).
 In relation to Amartya Sen’s definition of development, Amartya explains that human development requires the removal of a variety of civil, economical, and social unfreedoms - poverty, tyranny and economic deprivation to name a few. What people can achieve is influenced strongly by economic opportunities, and when these opportunities are taken away by natural disasters, as the author implies, freedom is a challenge to achieve. 
