
#1. What was the toaster project? What does Thomas Thwaites attempt to do? Was he successful and what is the significance of this example in the context of complexity and development?

The Toaster Project was an attempt to investigate/replicate the manufacture of something produced everyday in an object, a toaster, aimed at revealing the nature of mass manufacturing. Thomas Thwaites documented the process through video, publication and by gathering all the elements that went into the production of the toaster, including the apparatus he created for the refining and manufacturing processes. His installation collected all of these objects, consisting of the materials, final toaster, digital images, video and publication. Thomas was successful, and his project was significant because it highlighted the complexity of everyday mass-manufactured objects and the “hidden” supply chains of our global economy that make low-cost production achievable. 


#2.  According to Barder, how successful have economic models been at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years?  How did he use the Harrod-Domar model, the Solow model, the Washington consensus and the Ajoakuta Steel works to illustrate his point (reference at least two of the above)

Barder considers the past 50 years to be the most successful in initiating social developments, like the reduction of poverty, increasing incomes, increasing rate of education, and more. However, the models still are not able to explain the disparity in levels of development of different countries, thus contributing to their partial lack of success. The missing components of the models might have better explanations for the difference. Firstly, the Harrod-Domas model is based on the capital factor as the crucial factor of economic growth. He used the model to show economic insecurity, instability, and change among different income levels in each nation, and different nations amongst one another. Barder also used the Solow model, a model of economic growth that analyzes changes in the level of output in an economy over time as a result of changes in the population growth rate. He was able to illustrate his point that it is challenging to make references in relation to economic growth among nations where different factors (like population growth) tend to be different.

#3.  Who was Steve Jones? What did he do at uni-lever? Was he successful?  Specifically what did he do in order to make an evolutionary jump forward?  How significant were his results?

As seen in the podcast, Jones was a famous (and still is) biologist (evolution-related). At uni-lever, he aided in designing a small nozzle for a soap powder factory. Instead of creating the nozzle from scratch, he took ten existing nozzles and tested each one, altering the shape according to the given results. After many generations of nozzles, they were able to analyze the significant results and found that the final version was hundreds of times more efficient than the original one. This allowed Jones to make an evolutionary jump forward within his studies of the nozzle in the soap powder factory.

#4.  Who was Haile Sellasie?  What is the significance of Kapuscinski’s book, The Emporer?  According to Barder, how did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change?  How do you think Sen would have described this suppression? Do you agree?

Barder describes Haile Selassie, observed to be the last emperor of the feudal dynasty of Ethiopia, as an intelligent, powerful, yet secretive man. Haile had police (who were hidden among the others) to report every detail about the ministers working for him. Based on how they spoke, they could either be rewarded, or could be punished severely. Additionally, ideas and judgments were regulated only by the single emperor. The emperor controlled what people said and also suppressed the possibility of a social change. Anyone who tried to report the levels of poverty or economic insecurity within the nation would be punished. Sen would have described this suppression as unfair and not beneficial towards human development and freedom. Sen explains that one of the unfreedoms is “a tyrnaist leader who dictates a society and doesn’t allow social change.” This is morally wrong and won’t allow for change. 
