What is your general background---in a few sentences, what do you want me to know about you? What are your interests academically, intellectually, or professionally? Basically, what do you care about (no wrong answers here)? What do you think data science is? Based on your conception of data science, in a very broad sense, how (if at all) do you think it can be harnessed to improve the lives of people (their quality of life), the environment, our understanding of ourselves or nature, business & economics, everyday problem solving, or anything else?

Overall, I am someone who likes to ask a lot of questions, regardless of what subject we are talking about. Academically, I am very interested in macroeconomics (not a big fan of microeconomics), in addition to finance weather science. I care strongly about being involved in class and not just memorizing the content in facts. Intellectually, I really want to understand what we are talking about in addition to improving my writing and speaking skills. Professionally, I hope to gain a variety of new skills relating to adaptation in an ever changing world in addition to improved social skills. In economics and finance, I will need to continue to be very social and outgoing while not going over the top. 

I am from the small New England city of Newburyport, Massachusetts, home of the first coast guard and oyster cracker. In my free time, I enjoy spending time with friends, fishing and boating in the Merrimack river in the summertime, and shoveling plenty of snow in the winter. In my free time at W and M, I am part of the economics club, I work at the Tribe Campus Shop, I work as the treasurer of the outer limits dorm community, and I enjoy spending time with new friends and going to football games!

I believe that data science is the way our human race continues to use new and innovative technology in order to gather advanced data/statistics in order to generate conclusions. Data science can be harnessed to improve human lives simply by gathering more accurate data. For example, in the nation I am researching (Haiti), they have developed in-home seismographs that are more advanced and accurate to track earthquakes. While this may not directly help prevent loss of life due to the fact that the earthquakes would have already occured, it improves one’s quality of life by expanding education and technology. By providing new resources and opportunities in Haiti, not only does this provide more job opportunities (which indirectly improves people's economic situations), but people are able to learn and grow through new practices like data collection. The seismographs can also help response teams decide where to direct their efforts by analyzing the data and seeing which locations were impacted the most. Time was a major issue in the Haiti earthquake of 2010. Technology was limited and scientists/relief teams were not able to analyze which locations had stronger impacts and a stronger reading on the Richter scale. As a result, teams had to go to each municipality one by one to assess damage instead of being able to make accurate assumptions based on statistics from local technology. With the earthquake in August of 2021, local seismographs were able to make more accurate and plentiful readings of aftershocks. It is predicted that at least a few thousand lives were saved with the new technology. 
